# Planet9
A fully procedurally generated planet pack for Kerbal Space Program, adding a 9th planet to the Kerbol system.

***********
**WARNING**
***********
Follow the instructions in this file precisely. Do not try to launch the game without running the generator application first. Running the generators is required for the pack to work. Close any other programs you may have opened before using the generator application, or else you may run into problems as the application will most likely need every last bit of RAM your computer has. The generator application should be the only thing opened on your entire computer.

***********************************************************************
**Do not run the application at all if you have less then 6GB of RAM!**
***********************************************************************
I am sorry about this, but proceduraly generating an entire moon or planet is not an easy task, and quite demanding on a computer. If you do not have at least 6GB of RAM in your computer, you will unfortunately not be able to able to play this planet pack at all.

*****************************
**SUPER IMPORTANT DISLAIMER**
*****************************
You may NOT use the textures/maps generated by this application outside of this planet pack. This ABSOLUTELY includes using them directly or as a base in a planet pack of your own. This is expressly forbidden!
However, if you are a game developer or similar, and are interested in using this kind of procedurally generated assets in your original work, you may be interested in my ProceduralPlanet code library that I used in this application and that can be freely accessed on my GitHub: https://github.com/89Mods/ProceduralPlanet

Running
-------
After unpacking this zip file into GameData as usual, locate the generator executables in GameData/Planet9/build. It is important that you do not move this folder anywhere else. There is a reason why the application needs to be in this specific folder inside GameData.
Before trying to run the application, ensure that your default JRE (Java version) is *at least* version 11. The current latest version for Windows is 16. For Windows and MacOS, the latest version can always be downloaded from this page: https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html
If you use Linux, you can use your preferred package manager instead.

Do NOT run the .jar as an executable by double-clicking on it. It will cause the generator program to freeze eventually.
Instead, use one of the three bash scripts provided. Select which one to use based on your system memory (RAM):

	run_16G.bat: Use if you have 16GB of RAM.
	
	run_12G.bat: Use if you have 12GB of RAM.
	
	run_8G.bat:  Use if you have 8GB of RAM.
	
	run_lowmem: Use if you have 6GB of RAM. This script WILL drop the resolution of the generated maps down bit a noticable amount to make the generator use less RAM.
	
	run_extreme: Only use if you have 32GB of RAM or more. Starts up normally, but will allow you to manually increase generated texture resolution above 8192x4096.
	
WARNING: Do not ever use the wrong .bat script for your computer!

Note for Linux and Mac users
----------------------------
On Linux, the .bat scripts can be run as bash scripts as well. Either change the file extension of the script you need to .sh, or navigate a terminal to the directory containing them and run ’bash [insert_filename_here].bat’
On MacOS, you will have to navigate a Terminal to the folder containing the .bat scripts, and manually copy-paste the first line from one of the .bat scripts into the terminal and run it.

Using the application
---------------------
Everytime you open the generator application, it randomly generates a new set of configurations for the system's moons. Planet 9 will always use the same base configuration, and it is recommended not to change it. Each of the tabs in the application's main window represents another one of the system's moons. Opening each tab for the first time will generate a preview image of that celestial body, which might take a while depending on your system. Note that this is only done once for each moon until you click the "Apply" button. Once all the previews have been generated for the first time, you can switch between tabs without having to wait again.

By default, the only things that can be changed is the celestial body's name, the generator seed and the texture resolution. The name and resolution fields should be self-explanatory. The seed is what determines the starting point for the random number generator for this planet. Inputing the same seed with always give the same celestial body. By changing it and clicking "Apply", you can get a different celestial body. You can do this as many times as you want until you get a celestial body that you like, and you can do this for each moon, allowing you to customize your moon system. This is the recommended way to use the generator application. Note that you can also input text into the seed field, though it is recommended to always input a number.

Enabling the advanced settings will allow even more customization, though the advanced settings are very complex. If I tried to document them here, this file would become a 10 page document, so for now, once you enable the advanced settings, you're on your own.

The "Minor moons" tab currently only contains seed settings, as creating a unique configuration tab for each moon would blow up the UI, and is somewhat unecesarry, as even including the advanced settings, there would be very little customization options for minor moons. Usually it is a good Idea to simply skip past this one.

Once you've customized as much as you want to, you can head over to "Generator control". This tab just contains the big red (metaphorically) button to start the generator and give you your custom moon system. Make sure there's nothing you need your computer for for the next few hours, because this process will use 100% of your CPU, most of your RAM, and will basically lag your entire computer until it is done. Basically, make sure to put aside some time before using the generator application, as the generation process can take anywhere from 45 minutes to 3 hours. During this time, the generator application may appear stuck for long periods of time, but actually isn't. Only consider it frozen if the progress bar hasn't moved for at least half an hour. If you're on Windows and correctly used one of the .bat scripts, you should be able to view more detailed progress information in the console window that opened alongside the generator application. Furthermore, it is recommended you close literally every other program you have opened before running the generator, or you run the risk of your entire computer freezing up.
Once the process completes with no errors, you are already done. You may now close the generator application and start the game. Enjoy.

Contact
-------
If you have any questions, bug reports, etc., you can ping me in the official Kopernicus discord server as Tholin#7559. Please do not DM me unless you are not in the Kopernicus discord server or it is important.
